# Introduction to C programming
C is a general-purpose programming language that was created by Dennis Ritchie. It is an imperative, procedural language that is statically typed and supports structured programming, recursion, and lexical variable scope.

C was designed to provide low-level access to all computer hardware, like memory to provide more efficiency and speed. It is highly portable, and can be compiled for a wide range of operating systems and platforms.

##The C-compilation process
The compilation of C files include 4 stages:
* Preprocessing
* Compiling
* Assembling
* Linking

You can use -x (or filename suffixes) to tell gcc where to start, and one of the options -c, -S, or -E to say where gcc is to stop.

* -c  Compile or assemble the source files, but do not link. That is, the compiler should not proceed to the linking stage. By default, the output of this stage is the object file, where the compiler the suffix of the source file .c, .i, .s, etc., with .o.

### The C-Preprocessor or CPP
The C preprocessor, often known as cpp, is a macro processor that is used automatically by the C compiler to transform your program before compilation. It is called a macro processor because it allows you to define macros, which are brief abbreviations for longer constructs.

The cpp command expects two file names as arguments, infile and outfile. The preprocessor reads infile together with any other files it specifies with #include. All the output generated by the combined input files is written in outfile.

Typical usage:
```
cpp yourfile.c -o fileoutput
```
## C-Hello World Programs
This folder contains the following shell scripts and C programs:
--> Note: $CFILE is a variable to main.c file.
* 0-preprocessor - a script that runs a C file through the preprocessor, saving the result into another file.
* 1-compiler - a script that compiles a C file but does not link to produce .o files.
* 2-assembler - a script that generates the assembly code of a C code then save it to a file. The output file will have the extension .s.
* 3-name - a script that compiles a C file and creates an executable called `cisfun`
* 4-puts.c - a C program that prints `"Programming is like building a multilingual puzzle` as it is, followed by a new line.
* 5-printf.c - a C program that prints `with proper grammar, but the outcome is a piece of art,` as it is, followed by a new line, using the printf function.
* 6-size.c - a C program that prints the size of various C-types.
* 100-intel.c - a C program that generates assembly code(intel syntax) of a C code. The output file should have .s extension.
* 101-quote.c - a C program that prints exactly `and that piece of art is useful" - Dora Korpar, 2015-10-19` followed by a new line to the standard error.

